---
layout: post
title:  "Exercise 4: Linear Models"
categories: posts
---

## Exercise 1

This question should be answered using the `Carseats` dataset from the `ISLR` package.

You load these data as follows

{% highlight r %}
library("ISLR")
df = Carseats
{% endhighlight %}

(a) Fit a multiple regression model to predict `Sales` using `Price`,
`Urban`, and `US`.

(b) Provide an interpretation of each coefficient in the model. Be
careful -- some of the variables in the model are qualitative!

(c) Write out the model in equation form, being careful to handle the qualitative variables properly.

(d) For which of the predictors can you reject the null hypothesis $H_0 : \beta_j =0$?

(e) On the basis of your response to the previous question, fit a smaller model that only uses the predictors for which there is evidence of association with the outcome.

(f) How well do the models in (a) and (e) fit the data?

(g) Using the model from (e), obtain 95% confidence intervals for the coefficient(s).


## Exercise 2.

In this problem, you will develop a model to predict whether a given car gets high or low gas mileage based on the `Auto` dataset from the `ISLR` package.

You load the data as follows

{% highlight r %}
library("ISLR")
df = Auto
{% endhighlight %}

(a) Create a binary variable, `mpg01`, that contains a 1 if `mpg` contains a value above its median, and a 0 if `mpg` contains a value below its median. You can compute the median using the `median()` function. Note you may find it helpful to use the `data.frame()` function to create a single data set containing both `mpg01` and the other `Auto` variables.

(b) Explore the data graphically in order to investigate the association between `mpg01` and the other features. Which of the other features seem most likely to be useful in predicting `mpg01`? 

(c) Split the data into a training set and a test set.

(d) Perform logistic regression on the training data in order to predict `mpg01` using the variables that seemed most associated with `mpg01` in (b). What is the test error of the model obtained?


