---
layout: post
title:  "Exercise 1: Hollywood's gender divide"
categories: posts
---

In this exercise You will work with the underlying data from this article "[Hollywood's gender divide and its effect on films](http://polygraph.cool/bechdel/)".

The article visualizes movie data based on whether the movie passes the Bechdel test. From the beginning of the article:

> To pass, films need to satisfy three requirements:
1. It has at least two women in it
2. Who talk to each other, about
3. Something besides a man

You load pandas and the data as follows

```python
import pandas as pd

gh_raw = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/"
user = "abjer/"
repo = "sds/"
branch = "gh-pages/"
file = "data/bechdel.csv"
url = gh_raw + user + repo + branch + file
df = pd.read_csv(url)
```

The names of the data are as follows


{% highlight python %}
list(df.columns)
{% endhighlight %}



{% highlight text %}
['movie_id',
 'title',
 'production_year',
 'votes',
 'vote_mean',
 'vote_sd',
 'theat_gross_dollars',
 'theat_last_date',
 'role',
 'count',
 'count_male',
 'mean_age',
 'count_female',
 'bechdel_test']
{% endhighlight %}

Most of the names are self explanatory, but some of them are not.

- `votes`: Count of votes on [IMDB](http://www.imdb.com/)
- `vote_mean`: Mean rating on [IMDB](http://www.imdb.com/)
- `role`: Indicator for actor, director or writer
- `count`: Actor count
- `count_male`: Count of male actors
- `count_female`: Count of female actors
- `bechdel_test`: Count of how many of the Bechdel requirements the film passes

### Questions

1. Read the article and discuss in groups whether you find the argument and visualizations convincing.
2. Generate the following new variables
- `share_male`: measure the fraction of male actors in the movie
- `share_female`: measure the fraction of female actors
- `status`: generate a variable that takes three values (`all male`, `mixed` or `all female` based on the gender composition of the cast)
3. **Grouped operations**: Discuss how best to investigate how the Bechdel score varies by the gender of the director/writer. Write `Python`
code to carry out your ideas and visualize the results. Which plots from yesterdays lecture might be useful?
4. Think about other interesting relationships you could investigate. For example, how does ratings, gross earnings and Bechdel score relate to each other? Are the results you found previously related to age of the director instead of gender? Discuss and visualize.

### Extra questions

5. Focus now on the `actsin` observations. How can you make a time series with average `share_male` for each `production_year`? How does this look? Has it decreased over time? What can you say about the development of `bechdel_test`? Can you smooth these measures of development?
